---
Description: A Planar Magnetic driver, has coined a few other terms such as
  "orthodynamic" or "Isodynamic", all of which mean the same thing (in regards
  to headphones). They can be described as the child of a dynamic and
  electrostatic driver, sort of... The best of both worlds, at least.
Categories:
 - Electronics
Tags:
 - Drivers
 - Planar Magnetic Drivers
Keywords:
 - Drivers
 - Planar Magenetic Drivers
 - Orthodynamic
 - Isodynamic
 - Music
 - Musicians
 - Music Producer
 - Audiophile
 - Headphones
 - Lossless
 - Lossless Life
Title: What are Planar Magnetic Drivers?
Date: 2015-11-10T22:39:00-08:00
---

A Planar Magnetic driver, has coined a few other terms such as "orthodynamic" or
"Isodynamic", all of which mean the same thing (in regards to headphones). They
can be described as the child of a dynamic and electrostatic driver, sort of...
The best of both worlds, at least.

<!--more-->

Like the [dynamic driver]({{< relref "dynamic-drivers.md" >}}), it requires a
magnetic field around a conductor with a current flowing thought it to drive the
diaphragm. And like the electrostatic driver, it contains a thin sheet of
flexible film. The key difference that coined the term "planar" refers to the
planar magnetic field that has a printed circuit spread across the surface of
the thin film in the same parallel plane as the diaphragm. In other words the
planar magnetic driver contains a charged flat wire or voice coil unwound on
the thin, flat film. The diaphragm is "sandwiched" with magnets on either side
of the diaphragm, and when charged the magnetic field pulls on either side of
the diaphragm pulling it one way or the other causing the air to move, creating
sound waves.

Planar magnetic drivers are beneficial because they offer better bass response
than other headphones because of the large surface area of the membrane
producing the sound waves. Additionally, they have a wider sound range, low
distortion levels, are amplifier friendly and are more durable without loosing
their sound quality. The large surface area of the diaphragm allows the heat
generated by the currant passing through it to pass or dissipate.
